and Germany will increase its
humanitarian aid for the Palestinian
territories by 38 million EUR foreign
minister analina barbach made the
announcement after talks in rala she
later met her Israeli counterpart in Tel
Aviv and she told reporters why Germany
is calling for humanitarian pauses
instead of a ceasefire the impulse of
wanting a general ceasefire is
absolutely something I can understand
but part of the truth is look at how a
seire of this kind could happen and how
Hamas which attacked Israel on the 7th
of
October will how they will behave in
this
situation th with reference to Israel's
right to defend itself the question
arises as to whether Israel would be
able to continue to protect itself
against illegitimate attacks because we
recognize that Israel has the right to
defend itself but at the same time we
want to ease the suff in in Gaza and
this is why we are so vly calling for
these humanitarian pauses and fighting
which make it possible to at least end
human suffering for that
time I'm joined Now by DW's political
correspondent Thomas Sparrow for more uh
Thomas we just heard there German
foreign minister analina bar barbach
again um explaining why Germany is
calling for humanitarian pauses but not
a ceasefire per se why are we seeing her
explain herself here well first it's
important to stress that Germany is not
the only country uh differentiating
between a ceasefire and a humanitarian
pause indeed that said Germany has
indeed been asking for humanitarian
poses in plural as a way in which
humanitarian Aid could enter Gaza the
idea why officials maybe are against a
ceasefire right now not necessarily in
the future but right now is because they
believe that that could strengthen
hamas's position in the in the war so
there's also this idea that it's urgent
to get humanitarian Aid into Gaza and
that a way in which that could happen
rather quickly and without the need for
a formal agreement a formal ceasefire is
by implementing these kinds of
humanitarian pauses so that's why you're
hearing German officials not only an
Alena babok but other politicians as
well distinguish between a ceasefire
which is a formal agreement and a
humanitarian pause which would allow Aid
to enter Gaza and can you give us a
sense of how much politic IC clout
Germany actually has in the region and
how much they could possibly affect what
happens in this conflict on its own
probably limited influence but Germany
does not necessarily act alone Germany
is an important member of the European
Union and as such it can have clout when
it comes to to trying to find a solution
to this and that's also one of the
reasons why anena babok has been
traveling not only to visit the
Palestinians also the Israelis but other
uh areas countries in the region as well
it's a third trip actually to the region
since the War Began for Germany it's
important to also have the chance to
explain its position because it's a
position that for many here in in
Germany may be clear and straightforward
Germany is very clearly supporting
Israel that has to do with Germany's
special relationship towards Israel
Germany's historical responsibility the
fact that Germany believes that it's
very important for Germany to guarantee
Israel's security that again may be very
clear for people here in the country but
not necess neily for countries in the
region Arab countries in particular so
for Germany and for analena babok when
she travels to these countries it's
important to explain the Germany's
position and explain that on the one
hand Germany is clearly supporting
Israel on the other hand it is also
calling for Israel to comply by the
rules of law to guarantee that civilians
are not attacked to guarantee that Aid
can enter Gaza and so on so these are
the two sides of Germany's position if
you will now and just briefly Before I
Let You Go Thomas given that background
and given Germany special responsibility
toward Israel how is this conflict being
discussed in here in German Society it's
being discussed a lot you see several
protests from both sides from different
sides of the conflict you see that it's
also something that's being discussed
widely in German Society you see that
people are concerned about uh the
conflict that's something that several
polls have revealed you see that people
are concerned about the impact that it
may have might have here in the country
as well when it comes to inreased
numbers of of anti-Semitic cases in the
country so there is certainly concern
people are looking at this conflict in
detail and it is something that people
are looking at how it can possibly be
resolved so all this debate about
humanitarian pauses ceasefires and so on
is also something that's being played
here in the country as well Thomas thank
you so much for that analysis that's
DW's political correspondent Thomas
Barrow